# Data-science-and-AI-
The files in this repository are a part of my first semester modules. The coursework I had worked on in Semester 1 thus far.
1. Data analysis - an analysis on the travel patterns of the London population using the underground services. 
2. Regression - A regression model to show the current condition of the bridges using the 5 predictor variables which include categorical variables, where the target variable is the condition.
3. K-Means algorithm from scratch with debugging and visualisation using the inbuilt Iris dataset. 
4. Data analysis on Storks variability - Analysing the variability of the regression models by interchanging the predictor variables from the 'storks-humans' dataset.  
5. Audio Classification as indoor/outdoor signals - The classification model's accuracy obtained using the random forests classifier was 56.13%.
Throughout the project,the processed audio data had its relevant features extracted. However, the results indicated that the current set of features may not be sufficient to accurately differentiate between indoor and outdoor audio signals.
- The project highlights the need for further exploration and extraction of more suitable features to address this classification problem effectively. By enhancing the feature extraction process, it is expected that the accuracy of the classification model can be improved, leading to more accurate identification of indoor and outdoor audio classes.
6. Audio Classification for gender (here, Male/Female): This pipeline consists of splitting the dataset into 70%- training set and a 30% of test set. This is done so to first train the model using the right parameters. Furthermore, by using the training set a grid search cross validation is to be performed to tune the hyperparameters of a Random Forest Classifier. The best hyper parameters obtained are then specifically used to fit the training dataset onto the model and then predict the accuracy of the test set. 
- The classification model leans towards classifying the data into male gender, which could be attributed to the higher representation of male samples in the dataset. Although we cannot disregard the issue of data imbalance, the obtained accuracy of 84% demonstrates the effectiveness of the model in distinguishing between male and female audio signals.
- The success of the classification task can be attributed to the inclusion of features such as pitch, which plays a significant role in differentiating gender. However, it is important to note that abnormalities in the extracted features were identified during the analysis.
7. Convolution Architecture - The model consists of a single block that includes 10 convolutional layers and an MLP layer for computing coefficients. The output of the MLP layer is used to weight the output of each convolutional layer, followed by summing the outputs together.
- Each layer generates 128 output channels with a kernel size of 3, and padding of 1. Each convolutional layer is followed by batch normalisation, max pooling with a kernel size of 2 and a stride of 2. Usage of kernel 2,2 for max pooling reduces the spatial dimensions in half. Followed by a dropout layer with a dropout rate of 0.1 where inputs would be randomly set to 0, and a ReLU activation function for the non-linearities.
- The MLP layer is implemented using PyTorch's nn.Sequential module. It consists of an average pooling layer, a flatten layer, two linear layers with ReLU activation, a dropout layer with a dropout rate of 0.1, and a final linear layer with 10 output units which where these coefficients are used to multiply with the corresponding convolutional layers.
- The backbone class includes the block and a classifier layer, which consists of MLP and activation layers. The network takes an input tensor and outputs a tensor with the specified number of classes; in this case, 10.
- The forward function of the backbone class passes the input tensor through the block to produce an output tensor, which is then passed through the classifier layer which consists of the spatial average pool at the input of the block for the 126 input channels into the classifier, to produce the final output tensor.

8. Data Analysis in Excel - Analysing sales data by answering business questions to identify user retention for subscription types and using scenario analysis to achieve specific business upselling goals. This file gives examples of using forecasting in excel to forecast sales for a period of 12 months with a confidence interval of 90%. 
